README.md, before:

Saul
====
Dynamic unit test generation for pure javascript functions. 

![Demo](https://s3.amazonaws.com/nadeesha-misc/saul+demo+gif.gif)

# What is it?

Saul likes to generate tests for your pure functions when you don't feel like writing them yourself.

Suppose that you have a simple function like this.

```js
function shouldCallSaul(threatLevel) {
    if (threatLevel === 'imminent') {
        return true;
    }

    return false;
}
```

But now, you got a problem. This NEEDS to be tested. Writing a test with `describe` and `it` is fine - but your test file would be longer than the function itself. Not a problem? I'm happy for you. You're better than most of us. But the rest of us - we better call Saul.

Imagine that you can just leave a comment out in the file with...

```js
// @t "should call saul when the threat is imminent"        shouldCallSaul('imminent') equals true
// @t "should not call saul when threat is not imminent"    shouldCallSaul('nodanger') equals false
```

...And it'll dynamically generate the tests for you when you run your test framework? (ex: `mocha`). Well, in a shell, that's what it does. Your fully tested pure function would now look like:

```js
// @t "should call saul when the threat is imminent"        shouldCallSaul('imminent') equals true
// @t "should not call saul when threat is not imminent"    shouldCallSaul('nodanger') equals false
function shouldCallSaul(threatLevel) {
    if (threatLevel === 'imminent') {
        return true;
    }

    return false;
}
```

# What more can it do?

### calls-spy
Checks whether a test spy is called 
```js
// @t "reads file" getFileContent('fakeFilePath', 'spyFoo') calls-spy true
```

### calls-spy-with
Checks whether a test spy is called with the expected value
```js
// @t "reads file" getFileContent('fakeFilePath', 'spyFoo') calls-spy-with fakeFilePath
```

### contains-dom
Checks whether the given emmet expression exists within the generated DOM
```js
// @t "has new div" List({items: [1, 2]}) contains-dom li.item{1}
```

### contains
Checks whether the output contains the expected value
```js
// @t "can concat" concatanate('string1', 'something els') contains 'string1'
```

### deep-equal
Checks whether the expected value is deep equal to actual value
```js
// @t "assigns correctly" myAssign({ foo: 1 }, { foo: 2}) deep-equals { foo: 2 }
```

### equals
Checks whether the expected value is equal to the actual value
```js
// @t "can sum" sum(1, 2) equals 3
```

### is-not
Checks whether the expected value is not equal to the actual value. (Opposite of `equals`)
```js
// @t "can sum" sum(1, 2) is-not 4
```

### matches-dom
Checks whether the given emmet expression matches the generated DOM
```js
// @t "has new div" FooSpan({children: 'bar'}) matches-dom span#foo{bar}
```

### throws
Checks whether the invokation would throw.
```js
// @t "throws on null engine" executeTest({engine: null}) throws Error
```

And more! See: [extending saul](#extending).

## Extending Saul <a name="extending"></a>

Then engines are the "comparator" in the tests.

```js
// @t "has new pill" Thumbnail({isNew: true}) contains-dom div#foo{New}                   ===> contains-dom
// @t "reads file" getFileContent('fakeFilePath', 'spyFoo') calls-spy-with fakeFilePath   ===> calls-spy-with
// @t "throws on null engine" executeTest({engine: null}) throws Error                    ===> throws
```

They are handled by the file of that name in `src/engines`. (Example: `src/engines/contains-dom.js`)

The "engines", are responsible for generating the tests. So, as long as you build a custom engine - it can pretty much test anything. 

The default engines can do a few cool things out of the box. (check the `src/engines/` directory). You can always write your own engines and put them in your `customEnginesDir` defined in `.saulrc`.

## Installation

1. Install Saul as a dev dependency: `yarn add saul -d`
2. Create a `.saulrc` in the root.

example:
```js
{
    "fileGlob": "src/**/*.js",                      // files that contain the saul comments
    "customEnginesDir": "./src/custom-saul-engines" // optional: dir where you will put custom engine .js files
}
```

3. Invoke saul from your test. 

Example: If you have some mocha tests already, your `npm test` would look like: `mocha src/**/.js`. Simple add Saul's bin (`node_modules/.bin/saul`) right at the end:

```sh
mocha lib/*.test.js" node_modules/.bin/saul
```

## Usage with Babel

Any transformation that you apply to your tests will be inherited by saul when you run your tests. If you're running babel, this will include anything that you define in your local `.babelrc`.

For an instance, if you want to feed babel-transformed files to mocha, you will invoke mocha with `mocha --compilers js:babel-register`. You can simply add saul to the end of the command. (`mocha --compilers js:babel-register node_modules/.bin/saul`) - and things will Just Work™.

# Examples

Just give a read through this repo. Saul is tested with Saul! :rocket:

# Contributions

Please! Here are som TODOs that need being done.

- [ ] More engines! (If you would like to contribute an engine, please take a look at the engine files at `src/engines`)
- [ ] Documentation on writing engines.
- [ ] Extending the parsers for fixtures
- [ ] Better error handling for engines
- [ ] Tests for existing engines

Commit message:

Adding support documentation for Jest

README.md, after:

Saul
====
Dynamic unit test generation for pure javascript functions. 

![Demo](https://s3.amazonaws.com/nadeesha-misc/saul+demo+gif.gif)

# What is it?

Saul likes to generate tests for your pure functions when you don't feel like writing them yourself.

Suppose that you have a simple function like this.

```js
function shouldCallSaul(threatLevel) {
    if (threatLevel === 'imminent') {
        return true;
    }

    return false;
}
```

But now, you got a problem. This NEEDS to be tested. Writing a test with `describe` and `it` is fine - but your test file would be longer than the function itself. Not a problem? I'm happy for you. You're better than most of us. But the rest of us - we better call Saul.

Imagine that you can just leave a comment out in the file with...

```js
// @t "should call saul when the threat is imminent"        shouldCallSaul('imminent') equals true
// @t "should not call saul when threat is not imminent"    shouldCallSaul('nodanger') equals false
```

...And it'll dynamically generate the tests for you when you run your test framework? (ex: `mocha`). Well, in a shell, that's what it does. Your fully tested pure function would now look like:

```js
// @t "should call saul when the threat is imminent"        shouldCallSaul('imminent') equals true
// @t "should not call saul when threat is not imminent"    shouldCallSaul('nodanger') equals false
function shouldCallSaul(threatLevel) {
    if (threatLevel === 'imminent') {
        return true;
    }

    return false;
}
```

# What more can it do?

### calls-spy
Checks whether a test spy is called 
```js
// @t "reads file" getFileContent('fakeFilePath', 'spyFoo') calls-spy true
```

### calls-spy-with
Checks whether a test spy is called with the expected value
```js
// @t "reads file" getFileContent('fakeFilePath', 'spyFoo') calls-spy-with fakeFilePath
```

### contains-dom
Checks whether the given emmet expression exists within the generated DOM
```js
// @t "has new div" List({items: [1, 2]}) contains-dom li.item{1}
```

### contains
Checks whether the output contains the expected value
```js
// @t "can concat" concatanate('string1', 'something els') contains 'string1'
```

### deep-equal
Checks whether the expected value is deep equal to actual value
```js
// @t "assigns correctly" myAssign({ foo: 1 }, { foo: 2}) deep-equals { foo: 2 }
```

### equals
Checks whether the expected value is equal to the actual value
```js
// @t "can sum" sum(1, 2) equals 3
```

### is-not
Checks whether the expected value is not equal to the actual value. (Opposite of `equals`)
```js
// @t "can sum" sum(1, 2) is-not 4
```

### matches-dom
Checks whether the given emmet expression matches the generated DOM
```js
// @t "has new div" FooSpan({children: 'bar'}) matches-dom span#foo{bar}
```

### throws
Checks whether the invokation would throw.
```js
// @t "throws on null engine" executeTest({engine: null}) throws Error
```

And more! See: [extending saul](#extending).

## Extending Saul <a name="extending"></a>

Then engines are the "comparator" in the tests.

```js
// @t "has new pill" Thumbnail({isNew: true}) contains-dom div#foo{New}                   ===> contains-dom
// @t "reads file" getFileContent('fakeFilePath', 'spyFoo') calls-spy-with fakeFilePath   ===> calls-spy-with
// @t "throws on null engine" executeTest({engine: null}) throws Error                    ===> throws
```

They are handled by the file of that name in `src/engines`. (Example: `src/engines/contains-dom.js`)

The "engines", are responsible for generating the tests. So, as long as you build a custom engine - it can pretty much test anything. 

The default engines can do a few cool things out of the box. (check the `src/engines/` directory). You can always write your own engines and put them in your `customEnginesDir` defined in `.saulrc`.

## Installation

1. Install Saul as a dev dependency: `yarn add saul -d`
2. Create a `.saulrc` in the root.

example:
```js
{
    "fileGlob": "src/**/*.js",                      // files that contain the saul comments
    "customEnginesDir": "./src/custom-saul-engines" // optional: dir where you will put custom engine .js files
}
```

3. Invoke saul from your test. 

### Mocha/Jasmine

If you have some mocha tests already, your `npm test` would look like: `mocha src/**/.js`. Simple add Saul's bin (`node_modules/.bin/saul`) right at the end:

```sh
mocha lib/*.test.js" node_modules/.bin/saul
```
### Jest

Since jest requires a regex pattern for test files, you will have to create a file with a single file with a `require`, that will be matched by your jest `regexPattern`.

Example:
```js
// saul-runner.test.js
require('saul');
```

NOTE: If you have your tests file inside the `__tests__` directory, make sure to put this file there.

## Usage with Babel

Any transformation that you apply to your tests will be inherited by saul when you run your tests. If you're running babel, this will include anything that you define in your local `.babelrc`.

For an instance, if you want to feed babel-transformed files to mocha, you will invoke mocha with `mocha --compilers js:babel-register`. You can simply add saul to the end of the command. (`mocha --compilers js:babel-register node_modules/.bin/saul`) - and things will Just Work™.

# Examples

Just give a read through this repo. Saul is tested with Saul! :rocket:

# Contributions

Please! Here are som TODOs that need being done.

- [ ] More engines! (If you would like to contribute an engine, please take a look at the engine files at `src/engines`)
- [ ] Documentation on writing engines.
- [ ] Extending the parsers for fixtures
- [ ] Better error handling for engines
- [ ] Tests for existing engines
